---
layout: post
title: "A Reflection on Rolston's book"
date: 2016-06-19
---
<p style="text-align: right">William H. Chuang</p><br>
[v1] June 1, 2016 <br>
[v2] June 19, 2016<br>

<center>A Reflection on Rolston's book</center><br>

According to Holmes Rolston III, Kuniyoshi L. Sakai once said that the human left-frontal cortex, thus uniquely specializes in the syntactic processes of sentence comprehension, without any counterparts in other animals, and it leads to a consequence that massive differences in expressive capacities between human language and the communicative systems of other animals. So, at here what Rolston’s concern is he thought that human is not like the other non-human animals. A human could learn the ideas of environmental ethics. <br>

However, I think that this is not always the case, and the barriers to average wild animal to violate environmental ethics might be due to their limited intelligence to build the tools, to scale up some manufacture productions, so it’s rather hard for them to pollute the environment. But, does this mean they don’t know the environmental ethics? I don’t think so. Thomas Aquinas argued that non-human animals are “ordered to man’s use”, so in some sense at some period of time human can do worse than the wild animals to other species. For instance, a chimpanzee potentially could destroy the nest of several different kinds of birds’ nest, but they didn’t. Instead, if they saw a cat fall down to a river, they would try to rescue it.<br>

In chapter 2, Rolston proposes two ways of thinking about the relationship between economics and environment. The first way of thinking is: “In a second way of thinking about sustainability, the environment is prioritized. A sustainable biosphere model demands a baseline quality of environment” (Rolston 37). Then, there is an opposite way to think: “Economy can be prioritized, the usual case, and anything can be done to the environment, so long as the continuing development of the economy is not jeopardized thereby. The environment is kept in orbit with economics at the center.” Although the first way of thinking could be reasonable for human beings, insofar as economics could be represented as the rewards and resources that humans gain from the nature (by using an artificial counting system, the monetary system to define the market price and the earnings), and if there is no rewards could be gained anymore that might be the end of the day of the world. Nevertheless, if there is no sustainable environment, then apparently, all the economic activity will stop. Additionally if human keep thinking in this direction that the center of this orbit system is economy, then the society might be over focusing on the economy, and forgetting a more fundamental ground that our environment.<br>

“Keep close to Nature's heart... and break clear away, once in awhile, and climb a mountain or spend a week in the woods. In every walk with nature one receives far more than he seeks,” says John Muir. Personally, I tend to think in the second way that the economy must be constrained within a policy framework that well-defined what kind of the environment that economy could provide for all species, especially human beings. For instance, the clean air, clean water, clean agriculture soils, healthy sunlight, forests, mountain, rural lands, renewable resource, sustainable ecosystem, and so on. Some may argue that this kind of policy requires a totalitarian dictatorship so that all the doctrines of the environmental ethics could be followed as well. They may also take the communism prescribes sacrificing yourself for the good of the human collective; Environmentalism countries for examples. Those people may assume those communism society prescribe sacrificing yourself for the good of the non-human animals and the environment. So they thought communism was less harmful. But, this could be a misleading idea. <br>

Insofar as it all depends on what kind of the leadership they are, if a communist country is ruled by democracy, and that democracy is direct not indirect, meaning that the whole hierarchy in the central (and local) government is less than three layers, so everyone could use electronic vote, then this could do more good than harm. Otherwise, an obvious example is the two most well-known, and the communist countries: China, and the North Korea. By the way, they’re the only two communist countries that still running their country without actually implementing democracy. For the North Korea, their party leader try to pollute the Earth by using nuclear weapons, and so does what China did in the East Turkistan, and not to mention what China did in the past two decades efficiently take so much effort in polluting the Earth. The other idea is a lot of people may think those people who worked for the evil communists are also dirty and evil, and most of all are cowards, since if they work together than why communist party could still alive till today? Personally, I would think that in order to meet a perfect balance on the economy and environment, a more fundamental issue could be we must make a more equal (not only nation wide, but worldwide) society. <br>

The point is what those poor people didn’t cooperate together to revolutionize their government is due to they are lack of education and connection to the world outside their country. And, more important point is some people who own the power or (inclusive or) money are working together with those communist party leaders (for instance, the president Nixon). Just think about that if no one, no any countries, and know any companies could work with China, then suddenly those party leaders could not earn any cents from abuse their poor citizens from outside of their country. <br>
It follows that they may still abuse their poor citizens, if they didn’t declare a war to any country on the planet except themselves, but at the same time their economy will go down and can't sustain the illusion of a bright future for their country, because they may not be able to get any wage since the cut off. Then under this circumstances, those poor labors might start to work together to find out the way to revolute their society. In history, it seems thus far there are no two democratic countries declare a war between each other. <br>

Insofar, we only have seen a non-democratized country to invade a democratized country, or vice versa, but the former own a larger probability. Why this is the case? We might be able to assume that if a country is controlled by a small group of people (and most of them own a second country citizenship, and almost all of their family members do that too), then they may act less responsible for their country, and more easily to declare a war to the other country, insofar as they can run away anytime.<br> 

Finally, it seems what we should educate to poor people about the environmental ethics, and to the party leaders should be different, and for some abnormal countries (that the population of poor people are way more than others), the emergent message should target the party leader (the power owner, the military owner), and try to take more power from them and release to their people, and I think the current technology of social media and the artificial intelligence are potential solutions.<br>



<center>Works Cited<br></center>
Rolston , Holmes. “A New Environmental Ethics.” 6th ed. Routledge, 2012.
