---
layout: post
title: "How modern technologies could help I-Thou relation?"
date: 2016-07-18
---
William H. Chuang<br>
[v1] July 18, 2016 <br>

How modern technologies could help I-Thou relation?<br>

Whether Buber would agree the modern technologies would help or hinder I-Thou relation are highly depend on three factors: First, how deep could Buber understand the modern technologies? Second, modern technologies are quite broad, say at Buber’s times, the typewriter was a new technology, would he think of publishing his book by using a typewriter or any technology human used at that time for publishing? Third, how creative the specific technology is? Back to the first important factor, if Buber could learn a rather deep science, and know how human organs (especially, the sensing organs), and the human mind work, and consider the second important factor, then a natural result, according to his notions, would be: in order to communicating to the people that are still not knowing how to access the I-Thou relation, to connect to these people, to spread out the I-Thou theology, there is no other way (since we, human are restricted by our physical body) to avoid a media-based communication. In other words, a communication in the physical world is necessary, and according to physics, it must be based on a signal exchanging process. (Language in an audio form or text form are all signals, and they are created by humans as well). In short, to reach people still don’t know the I-Thou relation or Gospels, Buber needs to communicate with them, and those communications are restricted by the physical laws. (This will be addressed in more details in the following paragraphs.) <i><b>Hence, if Buber could be a STEM major student at the present, or for some reasons he could understand the true motivation and the meaning of  Science and modern technologies, then he would say modern technologies are a highway that helps us to build the I-Thou relations.</b></i> Moreover, if Buber goes back to the first important factor, then he could derive the third reason that he would agree to use modern technologies, since once he understands the modern techs really deep, then he would realize to develop these technologies, one should be very creative, and in his notion, to be really creative, that designer must be in an I-Thou relation, and those works are her art works. That is, the modern technologies that for those were creative enough should be seen as artworks of the engineers and designers. Therefore, when people use those creative artworks, people could be touched and those creative artworks could lead people to I-Thou relation. <br>

Here Buber must make it be clear that what kind of modern techs are worthy for us to write an essay. The assumption is made at here that if a technology is not creative enough, then it couldn’t reach enough size of the population to make its influence. Thus, all the modern techs that discussed in the essay were based on a premise that it is a tech that is creative enough, and in Buber’s notion it is an artwork of its designer that reflects the glimpse of the designer’s I-Thou relations. Only this kind of modern technology could become influential enough, and worth an essay. Therefore, there are at least three main reasons that Buber would agree modern techs would help I-Thou relations, and let Buber elaborates each of them in a bit in-depth.<br>

Let’s follow him back to the first point again: what’s the main obstacles of I-Thou relation? The main obstacles are people usually live with a skin-deep level of life, and don’t know why, how, and where to access a deeper meaning of their life, since they’re satisfied living in their lifestyle, to explore the other possibilities, especially for those “one percent” family that owns more than 90 percent wealth of this country. The second usual obstacle is for the majority of people (the 99% percent population) don’t have a chance to be released from their job, because they are not rich, they need to earn a living. The solution for the obstacles are the true meaning of technology, and that could change the world to a better place. Scientists and engineers have long dreamed of building machines that think. This curiosity dates back to at least the time of Descartes or even earlier. Today, the machine that could replace humans have already on markets. Recently a company, called Foxconn, in China that produces all Apple’s physical products, including MacBook, iPhone, iPad, and so on, have successfully reduced its employee strength from 110,000 to 50,000(Anand). Today, the designers of modern technologies look to intelligent software and hardware that could cooperate with the software that runs on it to automate routine labor. If Buber is living today and the same as me that majors in computer science and mathematics as a senior student, then he may see the modern technology in a different perspective that from a designer point of view, instead of from marketing people’s view, or usually user’s aspect. The meaning of current technologies is to free all the human beings from labor works. The definition of labor works is every job that is lack of creative thinking, every job that needs you to repeat a body movement, a sentence, and a behavior more than once are all belongs to the category that should be and will be automated, and replaced by the machine. Therefore, for the majority of people now there are free from their labor work and have time to develop their I-Thou relation to the persons they care at the every present moment. Imagining in the stone age, every human being, even don’t have enough food to live, the majority of people must live to find food to live, under that circumstances the odds are most people don’t have time to develop their I-Thou relations. Because I-Thou relation is not like for human animals to live together, and there are automatically in that relation. Human animals need to learn this notion, and before that, this notion must be created or realized by someone who is very creative or sensitive in developing a spiritual life like Buber.<br>
	
Secondly, language is an ancient technology developed by humans, and it is an It. Back to the second point, would he think that’s not only couldn’t help I-Thou relation, but also hinder I-Thou relation (that is to say if anyone read his book that would result in hurting one’s I-thou relation). If we roll back to the first century, writing Gospels on parchment or papyrus were a technology, so does it mean writing the Gospels, and if anyone reads Gospels, could hinder I-Thou relation? Also, imagining a blind person lost her auditory sense, and using a hearing aid to hear the “I and Thou” and the Gospels, does it mean this would hinder I-Thou relation? Furthermore, a healthy person with normal functioning eyes (the receptors of reflections lights from the objects), and auditory sense (the receptors of vibrations of the air that are caused by the sources), are these sensing organs not a kind of technologies that are the results of biological evolution? Because how camera works are mimicking how human eyes work, they used the same physical law that are governed by the Nature (if one owns faith, then that is governed by God). Thus, if we use our five senses that were given by God in our daily life would it hinder the I-Thou relation? <br>
	
Although the book “I and Thou” and the book “Holy Bible” are “It,” but obviously people who live in a spiritual life wouldn’t hate them. But, why? The contents could let us go deeper and deeper into our I-Thou relationships. Recall in the beginning of the previous paragraph: some may don’t see a meaning to find an access that leads to I-Thou relation, because their life is self-contain in I-It relation. To turn away from their lifestyle they need some materials that has a nutritious contents that could guide them to a right road. Does technology has a significant role to help human in a correct way? Modern technology usually could be seen a human’s superpower, does a superpower necessary? Buber could find some hints in the Holy Bible—almost all the stories are about the past, meaning that is about the It. For instance, in Moses’s story, he needs to show his people with several miracles (those are all It) to persuade them to turn away from Egypt, and led them in a correct way to the Israel.<br>

Thirdly, modern technologies should be seen as artworks of scientists, engineers, and designers. “This is the eternal original of art that a human being confronts a form that wants to become a work though him” (Buber 60). Although technology is rooted in the physical world, the It-world, but if there is no It-world, if there are no space and time then we could not even exist (Buber 84-85). Those though we may not know why God creates the It-world, but if God creates it, then it must have its own meaning. All the It-world, including our physical bodies is all God’s artworks. All the modern technologies are God’s artworks too, he creates the modern technologies through humans’ hands. For sure, we all know that there are a “sacrifice” and a “risk” that “infinite possibility is surrendered on the alter of the form” and “the basic word can only be spoken with one’s whole being,” hence, if we “do not serve it properly, it breaks” or it breaks us (Buber 60-61).<br>

Finally, in my point of view, I think Buber would agree modern technologies could help I-Thou relations, if he could deeply understand the goal, the meaning of the modern technologies. It’s like fire needs oxygen and things to catch on. All the It, here we focus on modern technologies, are like the candle, the I-Thou relation is the fire that is caught on the candle. This essay never says that modern technology is the fire; contrary, this essay points out the necessary of the modern technology that play the role as the candle. Just like writing this essay, the fonts of each character is an art design. <br>

My second thought is some may try to ban modern technology because it’s not the fire (the I-Thou) relation itself. Those people are very narrow eyesight, and they are throwing out the baby (the Thou) with the bath water (the It). Those people are like Nazi, Kim Jong-Un, and Mao Ze-Dong. Because they are tyrants, and they are afraid people could connect each other, they are scared when people could connect the outside world (that are not controlled by them) and learn the actual truths, they are the real coward that afraid of the truth, the justice, and the anyone who has free will that dares to challenge their tyrannies. The modern technology connects people in the world. According to Mark Zuckerberg, he “believes everyone deserves to be connected” (Zuckerberg). <br>

That leads me to my third thought that modern technology sheds lights on letting human beings have an eyesight that more closer to the God’s eyesight, because with social software, we could see what happen in the Turkey’s coup, France’s terror attacks, Black people that was killed in real time. Modern technology could let the whole human beings learn to know ourselves quicker than ever.<br>

My fourth thought is that I-Thou relation is expensive. This thought is based on my personal experience. I am from a poor family—my parents are Japanese descendants that lived in Taiwan, after the World War II, the old Chinese government fled to Formosa, and they changed the island’s name to become Taiwan. Then they declared a new currency rate that was 40,000:1, in other words, 40,000 old Formosa dollars could only exchange one new Taiwan dollars. That is, all of the old Formosan people’s bank savings shrink 40,000 times. In my childhood (before my parents sent me to a Catholic charity school), we got discriminated by the Chinese government that governed Taiwan; therefore, I would think that I-Thou relation is a thing that for rich people to enjoy. If some think modern technology is luxurious, then so is the I-Thou relation. Then, what’s wrong with living as a human animals that if people didn’t have a chance and time to work on I-Thou relation? Would God really be sad if people don’t know he/she exists? I am not the God, but I don’t think he will, because I believe everything is good for him, and no matter what we did, God would still love her/his artworks.<br>

My fifth thought is we need to free people from repeated labor works, and modern technology is the way. Once human beings could handle their past, the It-world really well, we are freed from those material burdens, and have free time to explore the I-Thou relations. Modern technology is like a highway, we should not be a tyrant like Nazi, Kim Jong-Un, Stalin, or Mao to ban other people’s thoughts. Because all of them are God’s artworks, or God’s artworks’ artworks—God loves them, so I love them too. Everyone could use this highway to reach anyone she would like to know on this planet—across the border and cultural restrictions—to develop the internationally interpersonal I-Thou relations. Both saints and criminals could use the highway, because to connect to others should be a human right. We should not be like China: only because criminals could use the Internet, the Chinese government bans the freedom of using the Internet and built the Great Firewall to control what kinds of things could be posted on the internet. Again, all humans are created by God, are the artworks of God, so we should believe in humanity that if criminals use the highway, in the end of the day they could reach the eternal Thou too.<br>

My final thought is an I-Thou relation usually gets started from an I-It relation, so in most of the time, having a solid I-It relation could benefit I-Thou relation. For instance, compared a stranger on the street, and a family member in our home, which case has more odds could end up in an I-Thou moment? In my life experience, it’s way much possible to have an I-Thou moment at home (or at Church), then on the street. If human could build a well-equipped It-world by pushing the development on technologies to its extreme—the same as building the highway system, the electricity and tap water system, and the sewage treatment system. We need to build these fundamental things before we could have a well-developed civilization. We need to build these fundamental things before we could say a word about the luxurious things. The modern technologies are like the digestive organs, the veins that transport the nutritions and metabolites to and from our brains so that we could have a foundation to build up our I-Thou relations.<br>

<p style="text-align: center">Works Cited</p><br>
Buber, Martin. “I and Thou.” Walter Kaufmann. Charles Scribner's Sons, 1970 Trans. First Touchstone edition, 1996.<br>
Zuckerberg, Mark. “Is Connectivity a Human Right?” Aug. 20. 2013. Web. July 17, 2016. <br>
https://www.facebook.com/isconnectivityahumanright<br>
Anand, Kunal. "3000 Engineers Freed Up At Wipro After Artificial Intelligence Learns To Do Their Work!" Indiatimes.com.<br> Indiatimes.com, 9 June 2016. Web. 27 June 2016.<br> <http://www.indiatimes.com/news/world/3000-software-engineers-might-get-fired-at-wipro-after-artificial-intelligence-learns-to-do-all-their-jobs-256519.html>.<br>
