---
layout: post
title: "A Reflection on Rolston's book II"
date: 2016-06-20
---
William H. Chuang<br>
[v1] June 9, 2016 <br>
[v2] June 20, 2016<br>

<p style="text-align: center">A Reflection on Rolston's book II</p><br>

In Chapter 3 Animals—Beasts in Flesh and Blood, Rolston states that somebody inside the animals is important. After he compares the environmental ethics with animal welfare, he discussed his point of view on hunting, then he states his points on domestic animals, the notion of zoos, and the research done in the zoos and the ethical meaning of those experiments. According to Rolston, in order to inquire whether ethics is only about human, in the first section of chapter 3, he proposed a question: “What sort of nonhuman are morally considerable?”(Rolston 63). I think, since in his definition Ethics is about the sorts of things people value; therefore, since these values are extended in nonhuman objects, so the scope of ethics should not only include humans, but nonhuman objects. Although for Tom Regan, ethics mostly only includes mammals, and Regan merely considers so called the subject-of-a-life that are living organism. However, it seems something important for the living organisms are missing, for instance, their fundamental components: all the molecules, ions, and atoms. Because the same fundamental components also form the rivers, oceans, plants, and mountains. Those little elements could hugely influence animals’ life by causing diseases.<br>

In my point of view, I realize that this is a kind of emergence phenomena that above the subatomic level. The level that collective motions of molecules occurs that it really matters of ethics. For example, the collective motion of carbon dioxide could cause the greenhouse effect, and greenhouse effect could affect the ecosystem on Earth very significantly. On one higher level above, the combo of the different molecules, for instance, heavy ions in pure river water can contaminate the river and harm all the creatures living depends on the river. At the subatomic level, say protons, neutrons, and electrons, are ethics about these particles? The answer is positive because protons can cause cancer in animals’ body (since they are positive charge, so they can break the normal chemical bondings inside animal’ cells by bringing out some electrons, and might end up with cancer), also a high speed electron beam can change the genes and the following generations of the new cells of the body of an animal.<br>

However, if we isolate the contaminations from water will it be the good ethics? It seems like that. Then how about we isolate all the fundamental components that on Earth, say one day if humans and all the life migrate to the outer space, what kind of the new order of the environmental ethics will be? So imagine in the future, what if we can isolate all the heavy metals and condensate all the gases on and in earth to solid state, and package the Earth to the other galaxy? Why this could be the case? Because if human species won’t destroy themselves before Sun destroy Earth 1.75 billion years from now, then at that time they will have to find a way out, and at that point what kind of the environmental ethics they should follow? The point is if we consider the Gedanken experiment, then it would be apparently to see that to isolate heavy ions from water would be good. According to Rolston, “An animal rights or welfare ethics, if it stops there, is blind to the still larger effort in environmental ethics to value life at all its ranges and levels; indeed to care for a biosphere Earth”(Rolston 68). Then we extend the line to isolate all chemical elements, and that might violate the current environmental ethics, because that line lead us to isolate all the chemical elements, or if possible down to the elemental particle level, and store them with some ways. And, again, however, the current environmental ethics taught us for hunting, “Predators kill for food, not for sport, and the claim that sport hunting is natural is implausible, even if wild predators enjoy their kill”(Rolston 70). And, we also learned as hunting is for food, say, in the stone age, that is, ethical if all the animals are killed by their bare hands. And, this implies that we had better to let the nature run by itself, and is only using sources from nature within a range for humans that a lifestyle like in the stone age.<br>

However, there is a problem. Since we have already known that according to our knowledge of the astronomy all planets could die that kill by Sun (either be absorbed by their Suns or their Suns loose temperature). Thus, the goal of the solar system is to destroy the Earth. It seems there is no a clear definition in our reading so far that whether Rolston’s environmental ethics could last after the Earth is destroyed. Because if “A wild animal in a zoo is not really a wild animal anymore; the wildness has been caged”(Rolston 83), then what kind of the ethics should be about when the Earth is not exist? <br>

In economics, people use game theory for decision making. People have learned that the whole point of the game theory is for decision making. A well-known result of the theory for the cooperation is: it’s necessary to show them the possibility vision of a relationship, if in a relationship one person forgets the future possibility, the person will do something that in a short period of time that could benefit oneself the most, instead of trying to maximize the share benefits for every individual in that relationship and could reach a rather larger accumulated individual benefits in the longer future. In short, to cooperate, humans need to see there exist a possibility of a future. Then in environmental ethics, the application of the game theory result would be to cooperate with the nature, human need to see the future. If the future time is limited, then they may challenge the foundation of the environmental ethics that since we have learned that every economic activity is depend on the biosphere, if the biosphere is destroyed, then all the economics possibilities will not exist. Yet, now what if the solar system destroys the biosphere before the economics or politics activities destroy the biosphere (or even earlier that the biosphere could get destroyed by a rather small asteroid)? What should we do as the point when we have already the deadline is approaching, say we have projected the future that within ten years, an asteroid moon size will destroy the biosphere? What kind of the environmental ethics will be about? What kind of the new order of the environmental ethics will be? I will keep track on this study line, and try to find some possible resolutions.<br>

<p style="text-align: center">Works Cited</p><br>
Rolston , Holmes. “A New Environmental Ethics.” 6th ed. Routledge, 2012.


