---
layout: post
title: "Earth Democracy: Potential Applications of Artificial Intelligence"
date: 2016-07-01
---
William H. Chuang<br>
[v1] June 27, 2016 <br>


Earth Democracy: Potential Applications of Artificial Intelligence<br> 

	“we are now facing a triple convergence of crises, each of which threatens our survival,” that is, “climate chaos and peak oil are converging with a third crisis—the food crisis…”(Shiva 2).  In the meanwhile, advanced statistical learning, also known as machine learning is a branch of artificial intelligence or just an AI, recently holds far greater promise than unsettling headlines about machines beating humans in 29 out of 49 games (Mnih et. Al.), including chess, checkers, and even the Chinese board Go. Humans and machines should be able to work together—not against one another. Machines may win at video games, but just imagine what’s possible when human and machine work together to solve society’s greatest challenges not only beating cancers, but food crisis, peak oil, and climate chaos crisis. In this paper, we will briefly introducing the one of the most important branches of the AI—the Deep Learning. We need to know what that is, and why it relates to our problems, and the ethical methods to use it to solve our environmental problems, including chaos climate, peak oil, food crisis, monetary market system, and politics of Earth Democracy.   <br> 
	
	“In Earth Democracy, everything is interconnected. To address the pollution of the atmosphere, we do not have to limit ourselves to changes in the atmosphere. We can change agriculture; we can change the way we design buildings and towns; we can changes the way we shop. […] In Earth Democracy, solutions will not come from the corporations and governments that have raped the planet and destroyed people’s lives”(Shiva 43). These are the definition in Shiva’s book “Soil, Not Oil.” According to Shiva, we could know that the more fundamental problems that are buried under the three crises is rooted in the current style of democracy. Thus, in this paper, we are going to focus on the political problems of environmental ethics, and the best resolution provided by this paper is based on the current development of AI.<br> 
	
	First of all, let’s learn a bit about the current AI. According to Schmidhuber Juergen: “the ancient term Deep Learning was introduced to the NN field by Aizenberg & Aizenberg & Vandewalle's book (2000): "Multi-Valued and Universal Binary Neurons: Theory, Learning and Applications”(Juergen). Deep Learning methods are inspired by the biological brains (human brain and/or the brain of nonhuman animals). Learning from biological brains, we now know that the existence of biological brains (and they’re successfully used in reality) could be seen as a proof that intelligent behavior is possible. Hence, a straightforward way to build intelligence is to work on a reverse engineering to dig out the computational principles behind biological brains and simulate their functionalities. Taking a look on how smart a biological brain could be. In a fruit fly’s brain, each neuron has about 100 connections to other neurons; to a mouse, each neuron has about 1,000 connections to others; in a human’s brain, the number of connections is about 10,000(Goodfellow et. al. 21). Thus far, our current technology just reach a human’s brain—with the same order of magnitude in the number of neural connections. Nevertheless, this is not the whole story, because there are two other important factors: the number of neurons (not just the number of connections per a neuron), and the size of input data. The total number of neurons in an ant’s brain is about 100,000; in a bee’s brain is about 1,000,000; further, to a frog is about 10,000,000. Furthermore, in a human’s brain the number is about 100,000,000,000(Goodfellow et. al. 24). Although, our current achievement in Deep Learning models just merely arrive a total number of neurons that have a same order of magnitude in bee’s brain, current achievements have already been able to make that were mentioned in the first paragraph. Our next step is to focus on how AI relates to our problems.<br> 
	
	“The high-entropy journey humanity has undertaken under the illusion of growth and progress does not have a future. We will have to change the road we are on, and we will have to change our goals. The goals cannot be set by reductionist science, industrial technologies, and neoliberal economies. The goals cannot be narrowly defined as economic growth or consumerism. The goals have to be the preservation of the earth, her diverse species, and future generations”(Shiva 136). One of the most property of intelligence is about entropy. Entropy could be seen in two meanings (there is mathematical equivalence), one is, the more noise in the data that are used the higher of the value of the entropy an data could be. The second meaning is about the amount of energy a system could provide. In the second meaning, because of the physics law—the law of conservation of energy: the total energy is equal to free energy plus entropy times temperature, that is, Total Energy = G + TS, where G stands for free energy, T is temperature, and S is entropy. Suppose the temperature doesn’t change a lot, and could be seen as a constant, and the total energy doesn’t change too, then we could reach a result that the higher entropy is, the lower free energy will be. The meaning of free energy is its a kind of useful energy. On the contrary, every energy goes/stores in the second term, i.e., turns into entropy, is a one-way road, there is no return; that amount of energy becomes non-reusable. According to the understanding that we just build-up, we could know that the more intelligence a machine agent, or human could be, the way the energy was used will be more efficient; in other words, the less entropy it will generate. Furthermore, the idea of minimizing the entropy is the most important part of the Deep Learning AI. Thus, a direct usage of this is applying Deep Learning AI on all of the devices that use energy. Additionally, why Shiva uses the word chaos, because as a physicist, she must know that chaos is associated with entropy. <br> 
	
	“Climate chaos brutal economic inequality, and social disintegration are jointly pushing human communities to the brink. We can either let the processes of destruction  disintegration, and extermination continue unchallenged or we can unleash our creative energies to make systemic change and reclaim our future as a species, as part of the earth family We can either keep sleepwalking to extinction or wake up to the potential of the planet and ourselves”(Shiva 137). As a system’s entropy is increased, the randomness increased, and the system would have some disorder phenomena, and those phenomena are called chaos. From the above understanding, we could realize the other thing that if the weather system is seen as an artificial intelligence, then the current phenomena could be seen as the agent got a serious fever that it is losing its intelligence, so the climate entropy is increasing.<br> 
	
	Now, that’s digging into the political problems on the climate chaos problem. In chapter one, to address the problem Shiva coined the term “Earth Democracy,” meaning that “Earth Democracy is based on equal rights of all beings to ecological space, including atmospheric space. The atmosphere is an ecological commons. Climate justice demands that these commons not be enclosed by a handful of polluters. Climate justice also demands that people be compensated for the impact of climate chaos caused by the actions of others”(Shiva 44). However, why we need the Earth Democracy?<br> 
	
	The reason is we have the problem: in a democratic country the government leaders are chosen by election, and elections cost huge. Most of the politician must work close to rich people, because they need three things: the campaign finance, the social network, and the positive and high exposure in the media. In the remaining of the paper, the goals is trying to use artificial intelligence to solve this problem.<br> 
	
	“Recognizes that if the survival of our species is threatened, maintaining our ability to live on the planet is the only intelligent response.… Earth Democracy calls for a systemic and inclusive response to the climate crisis, not the fragments and self-serving response that corporations and rich countries are making. Earth Democracy allows us to break free of the global supermarket of commodification and consumerism, which is destroying our food, our farms, our homes, our towns, and our planet”(Shiva 43). It follows that the problem mainly could be classified into two categories: First, the monetary system, and the second are the social media. Following, then, our next question is how to use artificial intelligence to solve the two systemic problems?<br> 
	
	To the monetary system, people may wonder how AI could get involved with the monetary system. However, our current monetary system is a huge real time artificial system that lots of people didn’t notice. A quick proof is, for instance, we would like to know how much a specific brand ball pen worth in real time, it will be extremely hard for a grocery store worker to estimate the price manually. However, it would be rather easy to just time the name of the item into the Amazon, or e-Bay, then a real time estimation price will pop up. The point is that the price on the electric commercial website is changing in real time, it fluctuates with as time goes by, since every seller around the world could access the website, compare their item’s price to other sellers’ and if they find that their price doesn’t make sense compared to the market price, then they will change at once. On the other side, each buyer is attending an election as well; they use the money in their pocket as they vote. Each time a buyer purchase an item, the person’s vote goes to that item. If we take this into boolean values (true, or false; true for there is an input, false for otherwise) as the input values of the system, then we can see how this market system link to the contemporary AI machine, because the fundamental level they share the same principle. Although the commodity market is just the surface, this idea could be generalized to other free trade market. The commodity market system is based on the monetary system. Also, we know that monetary system actually is a market as money become the commodity. Since everyone could buy and sell their own money that stores in a specific currency, the price of the currency could be different. However, there is a fundamental difference between the traditional commodity market and the money market. The previous one is trading natural physical things in ancient time; even today as people trade a physical product, say, the specific country of the currency have an accident event happens, for example the result of Brexit was announce that generated a huge impact on Pounds; in other words, even people wake up and find that their bank saving become useless because the value of currency of the country evaporates overnight, the physical things they have, for example a house, could still have its own value. In contrast, the currency is a different case. Moreover, the currency rate of a country is significantly controlled by the country’s central bank (in the US, it would be Fed) and that is hugely influenced by the government leader. Start from here we can see the injustice. The question is what if we reset the every country’s currency rate to be the same? On the other aspect, the question would be who could get the most benefit in the current system? <br> 
	
	“The people of Rajasthan and Bihar did not contribute to climate change. Yet they are its victims”(Shiva 13). The further question is why the money system matters as we studying environmental ethics? Because today, almost every natural resources are labeled a price by humans, and it’s due to the currency rate, it’s very possible people can buy water in a poor country in a way inexpensive price and sell it to a developed country, and still could earn profit. The key point of the example is the prices of water in the two areas are priced differently.<br> 
	
	Therefore, what should we do for the money system? Even if we let every country share the same currency rate, that just solve the spatial injustice of the money system. There is still an injustice in the new system. The problem is rooted in the who control the system. Theoretically the government should work for its citizens; citizens should be the actual owner of the government. However, this rarely happens. It results in some people who control the central currency rate could change the currency rate over time; in the meantime, there must be some group of people should use this temporal injustice (it’s called injustice because of the information asymmetry between who could get the information way earlier than the usual citizens, who could earn money from this). The solution is to decentralize the currency control; and to let the AI to control the currency. In the meantime, let every citizen could own the access to monitor the programs that are running by the AI under the hood in real time; additionally, we need a website that could let everyone post the idea, and as it accumulate enough people “like” it, the topic will become a referendum.<br> 
	
	“Climate justice demands that every person, every community, every society have the freedom to create and defend economies that cause no harm to the climate or to other people”(Shiva 44). Following, then, we could see the problem on our democratic government system; that is it owns too much hierarchy. Because it owns too much hierarchy, so the ability to reflect the majority of citizen’s true voice is weak—each hierarchy is like a refraction; it will get more and more noise from the people work inside the government. <br> 
	
	According to Rolston, “This is mixed into the problem of the use of technical experts in shaping democratic policy”(Rolston 216). Again, if we decentralize the government, and use AI to run the majority of the jobs that government does today; we could remove a huge group of people that could get the most benefit from these layers by layer government. Since AI it could run in unconscious and transparent, it won’t make decision that benefit itself, so we don’t need to worry about the unfair decision. We also don’t need to worry about a country could be kidnapped by a small group of people for four years. Compared to the current democratic governmental system: people only could execute the right of the vote four years a time; every day except the election date, the people become running of the government, people could only be its government’s owner in one day per four years).<br> 
	
	To the social media, if we stick with the water trading example, we could see the second injustice. That is the information asymmetry. Because the media are currently controlled in about five families—every media, if we trace back its source of funding, we could find that in the end it usually only goes to a small group of families. These people control the majority of people’s thoughts and opinions by using their media. Thus, this is why if everyone wants to become president they usually have to work closely to the media owners. It allows that the solution would be to decentralize the media control. However, we need to bootstrap from the current problematic system, because “in Earth Democracy, solutions will not come from the corporations and governments that have raped the planet and destroyed people’s lives”(Shiva 43). Under the current system, there is no way to shut down all the media that are controlled not by us, but by a small group of people. However, we have internet, we have social media. Though our current social media are mostly still controlled by a small group of people, this is a correct direction, because at least the reporters in those platforms are us, not the people who are under controlled.	A further reason why we need an AI system to maintain the above AI systems is this external system should be able to project almost all possible options that people could have, and propose them by using neutral descriptions. Then it must be able to predict each case, what will happen. With this external system, for instance, a good AI referendum platform, but with a good external AI to tell people what will happen after each option comes true (for example, the UK’s EU referendum). Also, in the social media system, if that system builds advance than the external AI, then things could go wrong, imagine a bad option that are obviously could do more harms than good for AI, but not that obvious for humans, then the society could become in harmony. So, the ability of social media platform and the ability of prediction of AI should be compatible.<br> 
	
	All of the above applications of Artificial Intelligence offer a framework for converting the ecological catastrophe and human brutalization we face into an opportunity to reclaim our humanity and our future.<br> 

<p style="text-align: center">Works Cited</p><br>
Goodfellow, I, Bengio, Y and Courville, A.“Deep Learning.” Book in preparation for MIT Press. 2016.<br>
Juergen, Schmidhuber. “Connectionists: Who introduced the term "Deep Learning" to NNs?” Mar. 2015. <br>
http://mailman.srv.cs.cmu.edu/pipermail/connectionists/2015-March/027851.html<br>
Mnih, Volodymyr, Koray Kavukcuoglu, David Silver, Andrei A. Rusu, Joel Veness, Marc G. Bellemare, Alex Graves, Martin Riedmiller, Andreas K. Fidjeland, Georg Ostrovski, Stig Petersen, Charles Beattie, Amir Sadik, Ioannis Antonoglou, Helen King, Dharshan Kumaran, Daan Wierstra, Shane Legg, and Demis Hassabis. "Human-level Control through Deep Reinforcement Learning." Nature 518.7540 (2015): 529-33. Web.<br>
http://home.uchicago.edu/~arij/journalclub/papers/2015_Mnih_et_al.pdf<br>
http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v518/n7540/full/nature14236.html<br>
Rolston , Holmes. “A New Environmental Ethics.” 6th ed. Routledge, 2012.<br>
Shiva, V. “Soil Not Oil—Environmental Justice in an Age of Climate Crisis.” 2015. North Atlantic Books.<br>
