---
layout: post
title: "A Reflection on Shiva's book"
date: 2016-06-25
---
William H. Chuang<br>
[v1] June 24, 2016 <br>
[v2] June 25, 2016<br>

The book “Soil Not Oil” is dealing with three problems: “Climate chaos and peak oil are converging with a third crisis—the food crisis” (2 Shiva). Especially to the food crisis that could reflect a deeper crisis: “the creation of “redundant” or disposable people and, alongside them, the potential for violence and social and political instability”(2 Shiva). Shiva says food crisis won’t be a problem for the rich; it will be a problem to the poor people that they will get the most impact. According to Shiva, the definition of the food crisis is “merging as a result of the convergence of climate change, peak oil, and the impact of globalization on the rights of the poor to food and livelihood”, where the phrase “peak oil” means, according to her words, it “spells the end of the cheap oil that has fueled the industrialization of production and the globalization of consumerism” (2 Shiva). To me, this idea is quite inspiring, and after I read the following two shocking quotes: “Industrial agriculture in the US uses 380 times more energy per hectare to produce rice than a traditional farm in the Philippines. And energy use per kilo of rice is 80 times more in the US than in the Philippines. Energy use for corn production in the US is 176 times more per hectare than on a traditional farm in Mexico and 33 times more per kilo.” Furthermore, “One cow maintained and marketed in the industrial system requires six barrels of oil. A 450-gram box of breakfast cereal provides only 1,100kilocalories of food energy, but uses 7,000 kilocalories of energy for processing”(95 Shiva). These quotes also show how unwise current industrial agriculture uses the limited resource. Although Shiva didn’t point out directly, but from some other parts other book, we can ask a deeper question: why in the US, people would like to use 7,000 kilocalories energy to produce/store 1,100 kilocalories food? Personally, I think the reason is because even people did this, they still could earn a fair enough money! And, it also implies that the previous energy price way lower than the latter one, says the cereal meal. 	Because this point of view did not see as a crisis for Shiva that to me a deeper problem would be by finding out who can earn the most profits in the current system we can find the real cause, then we could actually change the world. Otherwise, it could be just a product of logical and critical thinking, too naive, too utopian, and nowhere to excitable. To me, the efficient way to solve the three crises is to find the breaking point is finding the vulnerable point the current system. Following, then,  by sending the virus that will make the most use of the current mechanism, it could re-program the gene of the current system.<br>

So, in a deeper level, we have to change the price of the current fossil fuel. However, we don’t need to, if Shiva is correct. Because according to her, it’s happening! There is a peak oil crisis, so the Nature already did that for us! Once the majority of people in the system could not earn profit from this poor use of energy to produce food, they will stop doing that and find a more economically wise method which probably would be the local agriculture. All the food doesn’t need to ship that long distance anymore, and anyone won’t eat anything that is not produced by the local farmers, because the transportation cost is way too expensive. Then, people will move to live in some city that owns the local agriculture that provides food that would like to eat instead of building a city in a desert area, using huge amount energy on cooling the temperature, building dams to provide water, costing huge amount energy to transport food to that kind of artificial desert cities.<br>

So, after digging a bit deeper, we could find that this doesn’t mention by Shiva, and it led me to think is there any missing in her arguments? And, I found some. So, thus far, as we could see, the energy is not an actual crisis, actually, to our ecosystem it’s a great opportunity. Then the next question would be do we really have food crisis? Or it’s just an illusion? Because food crisis is a consequence of peak oil, and climate change; however, the first, as we have already seen, it’s not a problem, so we only need to deal with the food crisis under the climate change. But, if we live in a way that are following the nature instead of head-on-head against it, then humans could move to some place that still could have agriculture. We also could build more organic farms that don’t need to use, soils—the Hydroculture, or Hydroponics. It follows that the remaining actual problem is climate change. Personally, I believe that it could be, should be solved by us. And, the best way to solve it is by using our current technologies; otherwise, we have two options that may not that favor by most of us (current humans that live on the Earth).	<br>

If we dig deeper than the previous notions that so far we have built, then we may find that there are a lot to do with capitalism, and as pointed out by Shiva the politics of climate change is important. I am going to address this issue more in my final research paper. Here I would like to briefly address some main ideas. If we go back to the previous discussions, we find the role that capitalism played. Now, in the center of the capitalism is a working system that we call it the monetary system. Here are some brief examples in my mind (and some further discussions will be in my final paper). For instance, just imagine what kind of the world would it be if every country use a same currency? If we change our system tomorrow, at the beginning, it would be a disaster; however, in the meantime, we amplify the unequal, injustice, and unfair that a job, an apple, or a cup of coffee was priced. Then a natural force will be generated that there will be a sound from people all over the world will ask a justice pricing for their works, their housing, and their food. If anywhere is a resistance, we should use a new weapon that has built in this new century: the social media, the virtual reality, to let everyone around the world get involved that injustice scene—streaming in real time, meaning to let everyone know which person is trying to resist the justice and try to manipulate by using the information asymmetry (that is to hide as many information they can to the poor people). In cognitive science, people usually say the way to distinguish whether an artificial intelligence has free will (and so as its moral responsibility) is to use the mirror test (set a mirror in front of the AI, and ask whether it could recognize the image in the mirror is itself) to test it whether it has self-awareness.<br>

To me, to generate the high barriers between each country (e.g., the currency rate), and the information asymmetry is to avoid letting the developing country and the poor people (the 99% people) who live in developed countries to be united. Because once they could be united, the community becomes a new organism, a new individual that each (neuron) cells could communicate to every others very well, then it will end up with a self-awareness of this new organism: this new individual will suddenly realize where is the resistance by making progress in solving the climate change crisis, and all the problems/crisis on the global level.<br>

<p style="text-align: center">Work Cited</p><br>

Moore, K. D. and Nelson, M. P. “Moral Ground: Ethical Action for a Planet in Peril.”<br>
Shiva, V. “Soil Not Oil—Environmental Justice in an Age of Climate Crisis.” 2015. North Atlantic Books.<br>
