layout: post
title: "A Reflection on Rolston's book III"
date: 2016-06-24
---
William H. Chuang<br>
[v1] June 16, 2016 <br>
[v2] June 24, 2016<br>

According to Rolston, the success of an environment policy depends on cultural values, policy preferences, social institutions, and environmental science(Rolston 159). This reminds me the movie we watched in class that the Racing Extinction. It’s about the investigations on the Manta ray gill, and shark fin trade in China and Hong Kong for traditional medicines. “Our moral sense is really collective genetic and social experience of what’s good for us and what isn’t. Just like any other species, we are subject to natural selection of the most advantageous traits for the species in the long run”(Moore and Nelson 128). This quote, and the notion we learned from the class that human genomes are about 50% the same as a banana, and only a small fraction of difference in different races. These ideas inspired me with two points: The first is whether the current evolution of human genes is good for the ecosystem? Secondly, since there is only a small fraction of human genome differentiation of different races, then there are a lot of Western philosophers we have learned in class so far, and they start from the ethics. Thus, I am curious since on a hardware-of-mind level, different races share almost the same hardware, then whether we can start with different philosophers in various cultures. And start from there try to get the results that might intersect, overlap, complement, or disjoint (mutually exclusive) the results we’ve learned in class and Rolston. <br>

First of all, I would like to address a little bit about the second point. To the second point, I think I might take it as my final research paper. One possible development is I might investigate what actually happened in China. Try to derive the results that in philosophy, for instance: “The Chinese anciently distinguished between nature and culture, a distinction found in the Analects of Confucius”(Rolston 177), so what if we can find some pieces that could let us build an environmental ethics that is rooted in Confucius or some other ancient Chinese philosophers, and see what they might say if they saw the massive extinction of the sharks in the East China sea, and any kind of contribution of economic activities that destroyed the environments.<br>

Now, let’s go back to the first point: whether the tendency of human genome development is going to benefit the ecosystem? Thus far we could see the splitting happen since there are some people have started development the subject of environmental ethics. However, “The whole is different from the sum of its parts”(Rolston 163). So, some may argue that because “Biological integrity is the ability of an ecosystem to support and maintain a balanced, integrated, adaptive community of organisms having a species composition, diversity, and functional organization comparable to that of the natural habit of the region’”(Rolston 165).<br>

Thus, although Rolston points out that “Some argue that thinking of nature as natural capital still is too monetary, selling out on Nature, and is an inadequate way of thinking either of ecosystem services or of the value of nature in itself,” there still could have a large group of people insisted  that “Wild things exists for their own sake”(Moore and Nelson 101). <br>

In short, in their view, they may develop an idea, especially for the Chinese Taoism people they called it Wu Wei, meaning non-action and non-doing is the best action. Because they may build a higher level view of the Universe. In another world, they have a different world view, in order to detach the center of their theory, they also use a similar idea of ecocentrism, but end up with an opposite result (though that could be so wrong and selfish). They may try to fight back like: “See, as you said, the nature is like your mom, the land is your community, you are a part of the universe. Thus, I don’t need to do anything sacrifices, because the Nature knows everything, the Nature knows what to do. Also, because I am a part of Nature, so everything I did, every selfish movement on destroying the environments and increasing the damage is a must. Because I am a part of nature, so let nature decide what nature should do.” Sounds like crazy, but that might perfectly one aspect of the human nature. <br>

On the contrary, standing on Darwin’s insights, Leopold states: “…a thing is right when it tends to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the biotic community. It is wrong when it tends otherwise”(Moore and Nelson 101, and 125).  Additionally, “The ethical challenge for humanity—as a species and as individuals—is to sep back and let the being of wild things be, to widdershins so that wild thins and their self-willed Earth grows and man-willed parts become smaller. It puts the burden of proof on those wild things, on that tomorrow, not on us today. Thai’s unjust. …Those who want out of that obligation will have to fully show how it is okay to snuff strong and mindful way”(Moore and Nelson 102).<br>

Also, those people may partially correct, although that’s selfish and short eyesights. Because that could probably lead human beings face the end of their civilization. Since “It made us”(Moore and Nelson 343), it could also destroy us. And, for the Wu Wei Taoism people, they may think on the one hand, there might be a time delay to receive the backfire catch on them; for the other, they may think just let what should (according to the human nature that encoded in DNAs and could be seen as the essential result of the hundred million years evolution, and for those who have a faith in God would say it’s made by God) happen happen. Then they may quote: according to Leopold, “There must be some force behind conservation, more universal than profit, less awkward than government, less ephemeral than sport, something that reaches into all times and places…something that brackets everything from rivers to raindrops, from whales to hummingbirds, from land-estates to window-boxes…. I can see only one such force: a respect for land as an organism…out of love for and obligation to that great biota”(Moore and Nelson 378).  Since their misunderstanding, for those selfish Chinese businessmen, and their government, they might distort Leopold’s statement to support their Wu Wei philosophy. Because of these reasons, I think it’s a good time to dig into the Wu Wei (Taoism) and may need a bit study on how Chinese distort their traditional philosophy to support what they did right now.<br>

Besides of the above reflections, critiques, and quotes, I found the following quotes are interesting: The first is: “…an Oath for the Animals…I will not step foot in a Kmart or Walmart o a (former) friend’s house or any other building that was built on the newly bulldozed remains of what once was a native habitat”(Moore and Nelson 129), I think this is quite active idea, and have a huge potential to extend it to several other aspects. Also, to find a good place for the ecosystem, and for humans to build their house is challenging. But, I think if we trace back to the stone age that might give us a hint, maybe we can learn how to live like our uncle, say chimps, and build a new generation of green houses that could immerse to the ecosystem well (so the house may share same properties of trees, that is, it should be able to grow from the ground, need clean underwater, and Sunlight, can produce electricity by using bio-leaves). “Being sustainable means keeping something in existence, and we only sustain those things we feel a deep affection and attachment for because we perceive that their special qualities convey enduring meaning and value”(Moore and Nelson 377). We need to make our city design, and lifestyle could help the ecosystem always stay sustainable, and provide us a bright future.<br>

<p style="text-align: center">Work Cited</p><br>
Moore, K. D. and Nelson, M. P.. “Moral Ground: Ethical Action for a Planet in Peril.”
Rolston, H. III. “A New Environmental Ethics: The Next Millennium for Life on Earth.”
